                                     SPRING

Spring is a framework that provide set of classes , interface and libraries for developing applications faster.

Why Spring?
Earlier we had Heavy weight EJB enterprise java beans , Struts and Servlets and have issues with Loose Coupling , scalability
issues and dependency management issues were there. due to these problems   of lot of coding and lot of
configurations . John Rodson came with spring in 2002 . Latest spring version 7.X.X and SpringBoot 4.1.0
and we still use 3.5.x . Spring is a Lightweight framework which is more modeularized (Reuasability)
and it uses a concept of IOC Containers

IOC Containers (Inversion of Control ) Principle - the application flow will not be designed by the programmer
but by the Framework. Object creation process or Object lifecycle management is done by framework. so far
programmer was deciding whole flow now the flow of an application is taken care by Spring Framework.we wil not use
new Class() [object creation]

IOC principle implements Event Backed system , Callback system or Service Lookup system and
Dependency Injection(Constructors , methods and properties)

Good Community support in Spring . even if you face issues we have lot of people and lot of solution there

Features of Spring
1 IOC Container
2 Dependency Injection
3 Data Access - Data JPA , JDBC , Hibernate etc.
4 Web MVC Framework (Server side web app model view Controller )
5 Transaction Management support (Unified)
6 Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP)
7 Authentication and Authorization Support (LDAP , JWT , OAUTH2)
8 Good Security support
9 Good Testing Support like JUNIT , MOCKITO
10 Internationalization and Localisation support for various languages like Eng, Hindi etc.


Spring Boot Framework
Lot of Configuration to work with Spring and lot of repeated things related to dependencies
people identified patterns and simplified Spring with an Opinionated Framework for more faster
development is called Spring-boot . Spring Boot built on top of Spring.Simplified Bean Creation and
various things . Spring boot helps in focusing on Business logic rather than maintaining configuration.


Bean - any Object Lifecycle in JAVA managed by Spring framework is called BEAN (POJO/POJI plainoldjavaObj/interfaces)

BeanFactory and ApplicationContext are classes that represent IOC Container.

BeanFactory is old now and ApplicationContext provide added features like eventHandling

Bean Creation can be done in following way
1 XML File based
2 Java Based
3 Annotation Based(SpringBoot)

By default, Spring beans have singleton scope. and if you want you can make it prototype scope
various types of scopes we can use ( Singleton is by default scope in spring  , prototype, request , session , application )

In Singleton it will create bean in ApplicationContext (Interface) IOC Container. only once instance will be created at the start of application and
that will be provided everytime.
In prototype it will create when we ask or call getBean()  method then only it will create bean in the IOC Container.
new object creation every time whenever calling getbean method on context and not at the time of start of application.

There is three ways to do Dependency Injection.
1. Constructor Injection
2. Setter Injection
3. Field Injection

Bean Lifecycle :
1 object creation
2 setting up all the dependencies
3 calling init method or initialization methods
4 if there is any requirement of post processor beans ex. (Car class object need Engine object)



configuration Metadata can be provided in three ways
1. XML Based
2. Java Based
3. Spring Based

when to use XML and Java Based -
without touching these type of model classes (car , engine) . if you want to reuse it with any other framework use xml based configuration.
Because they are completely decoupled from any framework . let suppose new framework comes up like micronaut then you need decoupled design
Decoupled design is always scalable , maintainable and reusable. we can make domain object and service classes as java based and web controlled layer
as REST API of Spring . your code will be like pulg and play if any new framework comes up . you do not need to change your domain objects and service classes .

if i only use Spring based configuration then my business will be tightly coupled with Spring Framework .



