
MultiThreading:

what is MultiTasking and MultiProcessing and what is MultiThreading
when you work on multiple task at a time is called MultiTasking using multiple processes is multiprocessing
or by using Multiple Threads

what is the need of Multitasking
earlier OS were designed to do single task only . old time CPU can execute one instruction at a time
CPU used to have one core at that time . a mechanism where we can execute one task at a time is Single Processing
Process = any program in running state in your RAM .
UNIX first came with an operating system to implement multiprocessing and reason was CPU used to sit idle after
completing one task . now through UNIX we can run multiple processes simultaneously
Operating system does the task scheduling team if multiple process to be run . Time Slicing approach
Round Robin Algorithm used in TimeSlicing.
Now we have 8 cores , 16 cores and each core work as an independent cpu and now we can execute multiple
processes at a time . 4 processes can be taken care by 4 different processes. this is called parallel processing

within the process if i need to do parallel processing thread is introduced
if you want to achieve parallel processing in a single process using thread is called MultiThreading.


Thread is not a process its a part of process . there is a Stack function frame created for each thread and
thread can share multiple data structure of process like Heap , Stack , String Constant Pool etc.
here because you don't need to create data structure for each thread because it can use data structure
of processes and that's why it is called Lightweight . while process is heavy weight .

Example of MultiThreading : a man running a bike and the same human is using clutch , break , gear and another
break at a time . four threads parallelly . consider each of them as thread and as a person you can consider
as a process.

Types of Operation

1 IO Intensive ex. file read, db query , API call socket programming call
2 Compute Intensive ex. calculation , filtering or any type of condition check

For any type of Operation i am making a thread ( thread per operation) .Threading is for Max cpu utilization

CPU has multiple cores and OS map each thread to multiple cores are called Platform Threads ( we can also say
them OS Threads) . Threads managed by Operating system

Create a Thread in two ways
1. Java.Lang package have Thread class
2 Implementing Runnable Interface
